Condo Notes.md, before:

## Maintenance Requests

- servicecenter@terrus.com
- (515) 471-4428

## HOA Rules and Regulations

[This is the latest version](/assets/e5w-rules.pdf).

## HVAC

- _Lennox Package Rooftop Unit_ on Northmost End of roof.
- Serial `5608G11033`, manufactured 2008 (that's what the "08" in the number means)
- Model `TGA036S2-PKG` (the "03" means it's a 3-ton unit)

Any maintenance personnel will need roof access. The disconnect box is marked on the outside with the unit number.

### June 13, 2025

A capacitor was busted and needed replacemen (they typically last about 10-15 years). The compressor was very hot and needed to cool down. Worked with [Lozier Heating and Cooling](https://www.lozierheatingcooling.com/) for a satisfactory resolution. Highly recommended. The replacement will outlive the unit and Lozier provides a guarantee.

## Lighting

| Fixture               | Bulb                                            | Notes                                                                              |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Bathroom Square       | BP35G9/830 “G9 LED” 3000K                       |                                                                                    |
| Corridor Square       | BP35G9/830 “G9 LED” 3000K                       |                                                                                    |
| Clothes Closet        | F32T8/735, 48in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Utility Closet        | F32T8/735, 48in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Bathroom Sink         | F21T5/830, 34in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Kitchen Hanging Light | A15, 40W/5W (if LED), 3000K                     |                                                                                    |
| Kitchen Flood Lights  | BPMR16/GU10, 2700K. Original were 6W. Using 4W. |                                                                                    |
| Laundry Room Square   | CF13DS/E/841 “G9 LED”                           | "13W 841" means 4100K. "827" means 2700K. Mount says it takes 2GX7 bulbs, 13W max. |

## Floor Plan

1,248ft^2^

![E5W Floorplan](/assets/e5w-floorplan.jpg)

## Old Website

- [E5W.info](https://web.archive.org/web/20171024185401/http://www.e5w.info/)

Commit message:

Notes on Blinds and Flooring

Condo Notes.md, after:

## Maintenance Requests

- servicecenter@terrus.com
- (515) 471-4428

## HOA Rules and Regulations

[This is the latest version](/assets/e5w-rules.pdf).

## HVAC

- _Lennox Package Rooftop Unit_ on Northmost End of roof.
- Serial `5608G11033`, manufactured 2008 (that's what the "08" in the number means)
- Model `TGA036S2-PKG` (the "03" means it's a 3-ton unit)

Any maintenance personnel will need roof access. The disconnect box is marked on the outside with the unit number.

### June 13, 2025

A capacitor was busted and needed replacemen (they typically last about 10-15 years). The compressor was very hot and needed to cool down. Worked with [Lozier Heating and Cooling](https://www.lozierheatingcooling.com/) for a satisfactory resolution. Highly recommended. The replacement will outlive the unit and Lozier provides a guarantee.

## Lighting

| Fixture               | Bulb                                            | Notes                                                                              |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Bathroom Square       | BP35G9/830 “G9 LED” 3000K                       |                                                                                    |
| Corridor Square       | BP35G9/830 “G9 LED” 3000K                       |                                                                                    |
| Clothes Closet        | F32T8/735, 48in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Utility Closet        | F32T8/735, 48in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Bathroom Sink         | F21T5/830, 34in, 3000K                          |                                                                                    |
| Kitchen Hanging Light | A15, 40W/5W (if LED), 3000K                     |                                                                                    |
| Kitchen Flood Lights  | BPMR16/GU10, 2700K. Original were 6W. Using 4W. |                                                                                    |
| Laundry Room Square   | CF13DS/E/841 “G9 LED”                           | "13W 841" means 4100K. "827" means 2700K. Mount says it takes 2GX7 bulbs, 13W max. |

## Floor Plan

1,248ft²

![E5W Floorplan](/assets/e5w-floorplan.jpg)

## Old Website

- [E5W.info](https://web.archive.org/web/20171024185401/http://www.e5w.info/)

## Other Stuff

### Blinds

RollEase™ is the name of the company that makes them. You can purchase similar parts off Amazon.

### Possible Flooring Options

- [Premier Performance Maple Natural Acrylic Infused Engineered Hardwood](https://www.flooranddecor.com/available-in-store-only/premier-performance-maple-natural-acrylic-infused-engineered-hardwood-100827716.html)
- [Premium Carbonized Solid Bamboo](https://www.flooranddecor.com/eco-forest/premium-carbonized-solid-bamboo-100892876.html)
